[Back to Index](/README.md)

# Data Controller
LIMP depends on [MongoDB](https://mongodb.com) as the database engine of choice. This become the de facto option for LIMP the more the features of MongoDB got updated and improved towards modern apps designs. LIMP handles all necessary functions of MongoDB database bound to LIMP apps using Data Controller object which is locates at [https://github.com/masaar/limp/data.py](https://github.com/masaar/limp/data.py) and uses [`Motor`](https://motor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) "Asynchronous Python driver for MongoDB". The Data Controller has the following methods:
1. `create_conn`: This method requests for a new connection to be initialised.
2. `read`: This methods takes `env, collection, attrs, extns, modules, query, skip_process` as args and attempts to process LIMP [`query`](/api/call.md#query) and generate MongoDB-acceptable query and make the call. The method also process the results of MongoDB query for further uniformity with LIMP.
3. `watch`: This is `read` method with `watch` mode. The method itself is an async Python generator that uses MongoDB native [`Change Streams`](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/changeStreams/) feature to watch a collection, docs, or single doc for changes and yields the processed results back to [`BaseModule`](/api/module.md#basemodule) then to [`BaseMethod`](/api/method.md#basemethod)
4. `create`: This method takes `env, collection, attrs, modules, doc` and creates a MongoDB doc with contents from `doc`.
5. `update`: This method takes `env, collection, attrs, modules, docs, doc` and use MongoDB update call to update list of `docs` with contents from `doc`.
6. `delete`: This method takes `env, collection, attrs, modules, docs, strategy` and use MongoDB update or delete calls to flag `docs` as deleted, or actually delete them. Learn more about [`Delete Strategies` in API reference for `Call`](/api/call.md#delete-strategies).
7. `drop`: This method takes `env, collection` and uses MongoDB drop call to drop the collection from the database.

Additionally, it has set of methods for internal use which are:
1. `_compile_query`: Top-tier entry point for processing LIMP query into MongoDB query. This methods strips the special query attrs from LIMP query, prepares reference lists for use across the loop generated by `_compile_query_step`.
2. `_compile_query_step`: This method get called from `_compile_query` after processing special query attrs and preparing the reference lists. This method iterates over LIMP query object and process every part of it for MongoDB-acceptable aggregate query.
3. `_process_results_doc`: This method takes in native Python dict as MongoDB doc and processes it using LIMP Attrs Types, as well as wrap it as `DictObj` object.

# ⚠ Warning about Using Data Controller
Data Controller is meant to be used internally only. It's considered a security issue for LIMP modules to access Data Controller directly, as at this level there are no privileges to stop users from accessing data they are not supposed to. The explanation of Data Controller in this article is meant as reference only for what this part of LIMP is doing.